Channel reserve explanation to the liquidity page (#820)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/how-it-works/liquidity.md

By combining the business incentives of an LSP, clever engineering, and good design, you can build a bitcoin product that makes using the lightning network very easy for the user.

## Channel reserve

### What is a channel reserve?

A channel reserve is an amount that is set aside by each channel participant which ensures neither have 'nothing at stake' if a cheating attempt occurs. This reserve can not be spent, and is held aside for the entirety of the channels lifetime.

Channel reserves make cheating attempts less economical. When one channel party attempts to cheat the other and they are caught, a [penalty transaction](https://fiatjaf.com/73095980.html) can be used to steal all the cheating parties bitcoin as punishment. Channel reserves makes it so cheating attempts always have something at stake making this less likely to occur.

### What is the reserve amount?

> The channel reserve amount is dynamic and unique to each channel participant. As defined in [BOLT 2](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md), the channel reserve amount dynamically trends towards 1% of the users local channel capacity. The channel reserve can not be lower than the current 354 sats minimum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The channel reserve amount is dynamic and unique to each channel participant. As defined in [BOLT 2](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md), the channel reserve amount dynamically trends towards 1% of the users local channel capacity. The channel reserve can not be lower than the current 354 sats minimum ([dust limit](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/03-transactions.md#dust-limits)).
```
Good to hint at why 354 is the

> So if a user has 100,000 sats of local capacity, their channel reserve will be 1000 sats (1% of 100,000). This means the user can only spend 99,000 sats of the local capacity. The channel counter party also has their own channel reserve which aims for a 1% reserve. This means the total channels capacity will have around 2% put aside and undependable as a reserve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if a user has 100,000 sats of local capacity, their channel reserve will be 1000 sats (1% of 100,000). The user can only spend 99,000 sats of the local capacity. The channel counter party also has their own channel reserve which aims for a 1% reserve. This means the total channels capacity will have around 2% put aside and unspendable as a reserve.
```
Typo fix and removing repeated "this means".

> As users send and receive funds the channel reserve will dynamically adjust so its always close to 1%. If a users spends 10,000 sats of their 100,000 sats local capacity, their new channel reserve will dynamically adjust from 1000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats) to 900 sats (1% of 90,000). This adjust upwards if the user receive funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As users send and receive funds the channel reserve will dynamically adjust so its always close to 1%. If a users spends 10,000 sats of their 100,000 sats local capacity, their new channel reserve will dynamically adjust from 1000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats) to 900 sats (1% of 90,000). This adjust upwards if the user receives funds.
```

> ### How does this effect users?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How does this affect users?
```

> If a user funds a channel and they are unable to spend the full amount they have put into the channel this can be confusing to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can be confused when having funded a channel, but being unable to spend the full amount they have put in.
```
Made sentence linear for easier reading.

> From a UX standpoint we would need to consider the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a UX standpoint, we need to consider the following:
```

> <td>Adding funds</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Adding funds
```

We should ensure that the user is educated so that:

> 1) When they are adding funds they know that a small amount will be held as a reserve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When they are adding funds they know that a small amount will be held as a reserve.
```

> 2) They understand that although they cannot spend 100% of their balance they still own all of their funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. They understand that although they cannot spend 100% of their balance they still own all of their funds.
```

### Additional Considerations

#### Multiple channels
Each additional channel has its own channel reserve. For example, a user with 20 channels may have more funds locked in reserve than a user with only one channel.
#### Onboarding

> During onboarding when a user opens their first channel and when trying to send all their funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During onboarding, when a user opens their first channel and when trying to send all their funds.
```
What is this sentence supposed to say? It points at part of the user flow, but not what the consideration should be. The next sentence starts with "in general", so we were not told what we should consider during onboarding.

In general the channel reserve itself adds an additional layer of complexity to mobile users who just want to make payments.

There are however other, much more fool-proof ways to prevent theft such as:

> 1. [Using watchtowers](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/)

Reviewer: Both bullet lists on this page could be just sentences. They contain just two short items each, not sure much is gained by formatting them as lists.

Author: Great. Have removed this formatting to sentences.

By combining the business incentives of an LSP, clever engineering, and good design, you can build a bitcoin product that makes using the lightning network very easy for the user.

## Channel reserve

### What is a channel reserve?

A channel reserve is an amount that is set aside by each channel participant which ensures neither have 'nothing at stake' if a cheating attempt occurs. This reserve can not be spent, and is held aside for the entirety of the channels lifetime.

Channel reserves make cheating attempts less economical. When one channel party attempts to cheat the other and they are caught, a [penalty transaction](https://fiatjaf.com/73095980.html) can be used to steal all the cheating parties bitcoin as punishment. Channel reserves makes it so cheating attempts always have something at stake making this less likely to occur.

> ### What is the reserve amount?

Reviewer 2: I think this section would really benefit from some graphics depicting channel reserve in the same style as the ones above. The graphics would help explain a complicated topic and also help the page look nice from top to bottom.
@mouxdesign If you'd like, I could make some graphics and send you the Figma link or commit to your branch.

Author: Fully agree with you @sbddesign , feel free to design a graphic.

Reviewer 2: Ok, I just pushed some graphics.

> The lightning network enforces that to protect users we should have a reserve, called the channel reserve. It is an amount that will be held in a channel and cannot be spent.
> A channel reserve works as a type of insurance against theft. If a peer tries to cheat in a channel then the other party can submit a penalty transaction. This transaction will then take away all the funds from the other user's channel. Having the channel reserve in place ensures that there are funds available to take away should this occur.
> Each side of a channel maintains the channel reserve, and the protocol ensures that there is always progress being made towards meeting this reserve amount. The channel reserve capacity is the amount of both sides of the parties combined.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A channel reserve is an amount that is set aside by each channel participant which ensures neither have 'nothing at stake' if a cheating attempt occurs. This reserve can not be spent, and is held aside for the entirety of the channels lifetime. 

Channel reserves make cheating attempts less economical. When one channel party attempts to cheat the other and they are caught, a [penalty transaction](https://fiatjaf.com/73095980.html) can be used to steal all the cheating parties bitcoin as punishment. Channel reserves makes it so cheating attempts always have something at stake making this less likely to occur. 
```

Shortened this a bit and made it a little clearer. Removed last bit about moving towards the capacity as this is covered in the next section

> ### Channel reserve amount

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### What is the reserve amount?
```

The channel reserve amount is dynamic and unique to each channel participant. As defined in [BOLT 2](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md), the channel reserve amount dynamically trends towards 1% of the users local channel capacity. The channel reserve can not be lower than the current 354 sats minimum ([dust limit](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/03-transactions.md#dust-limits)).

> So if a user has 100,000 sats of local capacity, their channel reserve will be 1000 sats (1% of 100,000). The user can only spend 99,000 sats of the local capacity. The channel counter party also has their own channel reserve which aims for a 1% reserve. This means the total channels capacity will have around 2% put aside and unspendable as a reserve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So if a user has 100,000 sats of local capacity, their channel reserve will be 1,000 sats (1% of 100,000). The user can only spend 99,000 sats of the local capacity. The channel counterparty also has their own channel reserve which aims for a 1% reserve. This means the total channels capacity will have around 2% put aside and unspendable as a reserve.
```

> As users send and receive funds the channel reserve will dynamically adjust so its always close to 1%. If a users spends 10,000 sats of their 100,000 sats local capacity, their new channel reserve will dynamically adjust from 1000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats) to 900 sats (1% of 90,000). This adjust upwards if the user receives funds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As users send and receive funds, the channel reserve will dynamically adjust so that it's always close to 1%. If a user spends 10,000 sats of their 100,000 sats local capacity, their new channel reserve will dynamically adjust from 1,000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats) to 900 sats (1% of 90,000). This amount adjusts upwards if the user receives funds.
```

> The channel reserve amount is dynamic and unique to the user.
> BOLT 2 defined that the channel reserve amount should be 1% with a minimum value of the dust limit (which is currently [354 sats](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md))
> 
> If a user has a larger amount in the channel, then the reserve amount being held has a greater effect on them, especially if they want to use all the funds they placed in the channel straight away.
> To give an example, if a user opens a channel with a total capacity of 100,000 sats, their part of the channel reserve is 1,000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats), and only 99,000 sats are spendable.
> 
> Both sides independently have a channel reserve. So if one side is 100,000 sats their reserve will be 1,000 sats. If the other side is 150,000 sats, their reserve will be 1,500 sats. The total channel wide reserve capacity will then be 2,500 sats.
> The 1% mentioned above is also dynamically adjusted over the channel's lifespan. So if a 100k sats channel receives 50,000 sats, this reserve will adjust to 1500. This adds further complexity for users as it will look like they are constantly losing sats. If a user has many channels open then the dynamic form of adjusting can become confusing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The channel reserve amount is dynamic and unique to each channel participant. As defined in [BOLT 2](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md), the channel reserve amount dynamically trends towards 1% of the users local channel capacity. The channel reserve can not be lower than the current 354 sats minimum.

So if a user has 100,000 sats of local capacity, their channel reserve will be 1000 sats (1% of 100,000). This means the user can only spend 99,000 sats of the local capacity. The channel counter party also has their own channel reserve which aims for a 1% reserve. This means the total channels capacity will have around 2% put aside and undependable as a reserve. 

As users send and receive funds the channel reserve will dynamically adjust so its always close to 1%. If a users spends 10,000 sats of their 100,000 sats local capacity, their new channel reserve will dynamically adjust from 1000 sats (1% of 100,000 sats) to 900 sats (1% of 90,000). This adjust upwards if the user receive funds. 
```

Clarified a little, removed the end bit about how it effects users as that is covered in the next section.

> ### Effect of Channel Reserve on users

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### How does this effect users?
```

From a UX standpoint, we need to consider the following:

#### Adding funds
We should ensure that the user is educated so that:

1. When they are adding funds they know that a small amount will be held as a reserve.

> 2. They understand that although they cannot spend 100% of their balance they still own all of their funds.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to be able to show this visually. I wonder if there is any place in the Guide where we already show something like this? If not, a UI screen could be nice. Maybe that's work for a separate PR?

> We should ensure that the user is educated so that
> 1) When they are adding funds they know that a small amount will be held as a reserve.
> 2) They understand that although they cannot spend 100% of their balance they still own all of their funds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We should ensure that the user is educated so that:

1) When they are adding funds they know that a small amount will be held as a reserve.
2) They understand that although they cannot spend 100% of their balance they still own all of their funds.
```

### Additional Considerations

> <td>Multiple channels</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<td>Multiple channels</td>
```
Is this suppose to be a markdown table?

Seems to not be formatted correctly

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/55287964/169740831-eaaeb6dc-c4ac-492c-b3c2-f60c3a297be3.png)

Reviewer: Probably should be a header (like `#### Multiple channels`).

During onboarding, when a user opens their first channel and when trying to send all their funds.

> In general the channel reserve itself adds an additional layer of complexity to mobile users who just want to make payments.

Reviewer 2: I'm starting to question this section. I find it kind of vague. I don't understand what claim this paragraph is making.

> There are however other, much more fool-proof ways to prevent theft such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, there are other much more fool-proof ways to prevent theft, such as:
```

> [Using watchtowers](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/)
> 
> Ensuring users regularly check their apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Using watchtowers](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/).
- Ensuring users regularly check their apps.
```

> 2) Ensuring users regularly check their apps.

Reviewer 3: I'm going to be adding a 'Notifications' option to the Lightning services page which we can link to from here. This is a way for an app to ensure the user regularly checks their app

Reviewer: Formatting also needs to be adjusted here (replace `1)` and `2)` with `1.` and `2.` ). Just [markdown formatting](https://wordpress.com/support/markdown-quick-reference/) stuff...

> There are however other, much more fool-proof ways to prevent theft such as:
> 1) [Using watchtowers](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/)
> 2) Ensuring users regularly check their apps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are however other, much more fool-proof ways to prevent theft such as:

1) [Using watchtowers](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/)
2) Ensuring users regularly check their apps.
```
